In this lecture, we are going to move a WordPress site from shared hosting to a VPs moving a site from
a VPs to another VPs is quick, easy and Error-free shared hosting can present you with numerous problems.
Some of the problems occur as hosts modify their control panel.
So much and certain options, which should be there, are no longer available in the steps that we used
to set up an engine X powered site.
Steps one to four are the same.
No matter if you are creating a new site or moving an existing site, step six to 12 are also exactly
the same.
It's step five that is different with a new site.
We would install it using WPC Allai when moving our site from shared hosting to our VPs.
We will not make use of WPEC a lot.
We are going to make use of a plugin called Duplicator.
I'm using duplicator to prevent any problems due to various hosting configurations.
It's free and downloadable from the WordPress repository.
So please go ahead, download and install duplicator.
We will look at creating a backup using duplicator shortly.
The steps you are going to follow using duplicator are as follows.
You are going to create a backup of your existing site using duplicator.
You then need to download the backup files from your shared server.
You then need to upload the backup files to your VPs.
Finally, you need to open the file installer dot IP using your browser to complete the move before
you back up your existing site using duplicator deactivate caching and security plugins.
Once you've downloaded your backup files from your shared server, delete the backup files, uploading
the backup files to your VPs, you will use files.
Then there is a lecture on how you set up files and to upload and download files to and from your server.
Once you've uploaded the files, open installer using your browser.
And don't forget to delete the backup files on your IS when you are done, I'm going to be moving the
site WP Seelie to a different server.
But not only am I moving the site from one server to another, the domain name will also change.
The domain name of the new site will be when web dev, all the contents, all the images of WPC ally
are going to be moved to when whipped.
If you need to log in to your existing site, install and activate a plugin duplicator.
Once you've done that, create new you need to provide a name.
I'm going to call it shared next.
Once the site has been scanned, you are presented with an overview of your site.
You can click on Bould.
At this stage, you can use falsetto and download the installer as well as the zip file, or you can
use your WordPress dashboard and download the files.
So I've downloaded both the installer and the archive.
Now you need to upload those two files to your server.
If you are using a Mac, you can use FCP if you are using windows.
I recommend you use files and upload one file using it.
Keep the other file using files in the name of the file installer.
You'll use a name at the name you gave your server in your config file Kolon pass to your home directory.
The file installer has been copied to our server using file.
I'm going to log in to my server.
In my home directory installer Dot P, the file we uploaded using a all you need to do is drag the second
file to your remote site tab.
We have now uploaded the second file using files and you can close files.
Look, at this stage, please ensure that you have the database credentials that you created for the
site readily available.
We need that information in my text.
My database name, user and password.
You can switch to terminal and please log in to your server.
A listing of your home directory will display installer as well as the Orka file M.V..
We want to move the first file.
We're going to move his installer.
The second file we will move is the archive file.
We are we moving it via W. w. w. domain name public underscore html.
A listing of the public underscore HTML directory will display both files.
I'm going to remove the index not file, which I had in that directory.
I'd like you to go back one level at listing displays the permissions of public HTML.
The ownership is correct, but the permissions seven five five.
The Web server cannot write inside that directory.
Let's go to our browser.
The URL slash installer dot p fail.
If you look where it is failing permissions.
Let's go back to terminal.
You need to give the web server right permissions in the public.
HTML Directory Mod seven seven five public html.
Read, write, execute, read, write, execute, read, execute.
We can go back to our browser, refreshing the page pos pos.
We can accept the terms and conditions and click next.
Now you need to provide the database information
I've provided my database name, my database user, and the password the host is localhost.
The port is correct.
It's test the database.
Success, we can click next, confirm the settings that are correct, yes.
New settings, the euro is correct when, but if the path is correct, the title of the site, I'm going
to change.
Under normal circumstances, you would not change the title options.
I'm going to create a new admin account again.
You would normally not create a new admin account.
You would keep your existing admin account.
The site you URL is correct when whipped.
If the old you URL is WPEC, Allai Duplicator is going to scan the database tables and replace the old
you URL with the new You URL.
The old POS is also correct and we can click next.
Let's look at show report general notices.
Nothing that concerns us, it's Log-in.
The site has been successfully migrated its remove installation files, now it's visit the site, I'm
going to open the site in an incognito window.
Our website is currently undergoing scheduled maintenance.
Its disable a maintenance mode, plug in.
I'm going to flush up cash, it's visit to our site.
And we have successfully moved our site from one server to another.
Now you need to continue with step six to 12, start by securing your site, using the command line
to the final step where you optimize WordPress.
In this lecture, we successfully moved a WordPress site from shared hosting to our VPs.